Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37:29
https://doi.org/10.1007/s44443-025-00012-7
ORIGINAL PAPER
Multi-party reversible data hiding in shared medical images based
on texture-guided hierarchical quantization coding
Wenbo Wan1
· Haina Wang1 · Lingchen Gu1 · Yannan Ren2 · Jing Li3 · Lili Meng1 · Jiande Sun1
Received: 11 September 2024 / Accepted: 20 January 2025 / Published online: 24 April 2025
© The Author(s) 2025
Abstract
In recent years, the advancement of smart healthcare has heightened concerns over medical information privacy. Reversible
data hiding technology has been applied to medical images to ensure both images and patient data remain secure and
tamper-free. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-party reversible data hiding scheme based on texture-guided hierarchical
quantization coding for medical information security and privacy. The core of our approach is a novel Texture-Guided
Hierarchical Quantization Coding (TGHQC) method, which can leverage the texture features of pixels to guide the hierarchical
quantization coding process, thereby increasing the vacated room and enhancing embedding capacity. In addition, based on
TGHQC, we further propose a multiple embedding method that not only supports embedding various types of data but also
maximizes embedding efﬁciency while ensuring information security. Finally, we present a hierarchical sharing multi-party
management framework that integrates TGHQC with the new embedding method, allowing hospitals to access patient privacy
information and medical images only with explicit patient authorization. Our multi-party reversible hiding method effectively
safeguards patient privacy and ensures secure storage and access to information within medical systems. Experimental results
demonstrate the scheme’s superior embedding capacity and lossless reconstruction.
Keywords Healthcare privacy · Medical image · Reversible data hiding · Secret image sharing ·
Hierarchical quantization encoding
B Wenbo Wan
wanwenbo@sdnu.edu.cn
Haina Wang
wsgzya_h@163.com
Lingchen Gu
lingchengu@sdnu.edu.cn
Yannan Ren
yannan_ren@163.com
Jing Li
lijingjdsun@sdu.edu.cn
Lili Meng
mengll83@hotmail.com
Jiande Sun
jiandesun@hotmail.com
1
School of Information Science and Engineering, Shandong
Normal University, Jinan, China
2
School of Information Science and Electrical Engineering,
Shandong Jiao Tong University, Jinan, China
3
School of Journalism and Communication, Shandong Normal
University, Jinan, China
1 Introduction
With the rapid development of multimedia and internet tech-
nology, and as human society swiftly advances toward an
informationsociety,people’slivesareincreasinglyintegrated
with the internet, driving transformative changes. In this
information age, the healthcare industry has been profoundly
impacted, with automated healthcare technologies progress-
ing rapidly, giving rise to telemedicine and various medical
management systems. Medical institutions are continuously
establishing and reﬁning medical information management
systems, with various types of medical data gradually becom-
ing digitized. Digital medical management systems have
signiﬁcantly improved the efﬁciency of managing, storing,
and transmitting patient information, saving time and cost.
However, this advancement also brings new challenges: med-
ical information transmitted over networks is vulnerable to
interception and tampering by malicious actors, leading to
potential breaches of patient privacy and even misdiagno-
sis. Additionally, the critical information embedded within
medical images transmitted in telemedicine must be fully
123
29
Page 2 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
protected, while image quality must be maintained to enable
accurate diagnosis. Therefore, the transmission of medi-
cal images in telemedicine presents numerous challenges
(Huang et al. 2024).
Reversible Data Hiding (RDH), also known as lossless
data hiding or reversible information hiding, is an innovative
technology that allows secret information to be embedded
in a plaintext carrier while ensuring that the carrier data
can be perfectly restored once the embedded information
is extracted. This technology is increasingly used with mul-
timedia data, such as images, audio, and video. Common
reversible data hiding algorithms include Difference Expan-
sion (DE) (Tian 2003), Histogram Shifting (HS) (Ni et al.
2006; Thodi and Rodríguez 2007), Prediction Error (PE)-
based methods (Li et al. 2013), and Pixel Value Ordering
(PVO)-based methods (Luo et al. 2010). These methods aim
to maximize embedding capacity while preserving image
quality, and they are widely applied in scenarios such as
copyright protection, data management, and information ver-
iﬁcation for multimedia content.
However, medical images inherently carry a wealth of
sensitive patient information, making privacy protection cru-
cial. In addition, medical images come with various auxiliary
information, such as patient identity, medical records, and
diagnostic details. In this context, Reversible Data Hiding
in Encrypted Images (RDHEI) (Zhang 2011; Huang et al.
2016; Zhang 2012; Ma et al. 2013; Yin et al. 2022; Yu et al.
2022; Yin et al. 2022; Yao et al. 2024; Yu et al. 2022; Yin
et al. 2020) has emerged as a more suitable technology for
transmitting and storing medical images. RDHEI was ﬁrst
proposed by Zhang (2011). They encrypted an original image
of size m × n by performing a difference operation with a
random key, then divided the encrypted image into blocks of
8×8 and embedded one pixel in each block, achieving a data
embedding capacity of m×n
64 . A random m ×n 01 matrix was
generated and divided into two sets: S0, containing 0s, and
S1, containing 1s. If the data to be embedded in each block
was 0, the last three bits of S0 were ﬂipped according to the
bit, while S1 remained unchanged, and vice versa.
To improve data extraction accuracy, some modiﬁca-
tions were introduced in subsequent research (Huang et al.
2016), though these methods lacked separability between
image recovery and data extraction. In response, Zhang
et al. proposed a separable approach (Zhang 2012) that
further optimized embedding space. Subsequently, other
methods were proposed, with one of the most representa-
tive approaches using a Median Edge Detector (MED) for
pixel prediction (Ma et al. 2013). This approach calculates
the difference between the predicted and original pixel val-
ues, embedding data from the most to the least signiﬁcant
bit. Additionally, auxiliary data to be embedded is Huffman
encoded to enhance efﬁciency.
To further enhance image transmission security, scientists
have proposed combining Reversible Data Hiding (RDH)
with Secret Sharing (SS), leading to the RDHSI method
(Wu et al. 2018; Qin et al. 2021; Xiong et al. 2023; Weng
et al. 2023; Chen et al. 2022; Yang et al. 2007; Chen et al.
2019). This combination not only encrypts the image but also
enables recovery in case of transmission errors. In Wu et al.
(2018), the authors ﬁrst proposed using Shamir’s Secret Shar-
ing (SS) (Thien and Lin 2002; Shamir 1979) for reversible
information hiding, adopting methods such as difference
expansion and histogram shifting. Since Shamir’s SS method
cannot effectively handle pixel values greater than 251, scien-
tists suggest using Galois Field GF(28) instead of GF(251)
(Qin et al. 2021), allowing shared images to be recovered
without redundant information.
Multi-party Reversible Data Hiding (Chen et al. 2024)
extends the RDHSI technique, enabling multiple participants
to embed hidden information while sharing data, ensuring
that the original data can be perfectly restored after extrac-
tion. Most current reversible information hiding methods
based on secret image sharing focus on evenly dividing the
entire image, overlooking the distinct priorities of different
parties (Chen et al. 2020). However, for different roles, cer-
tain regions within an image may be of greater importance,
and it may not always be necessary to extract the com-
plete image. For instance, doctors may only need to access
speciﬁclesionareas,whilehospitalsmayrequirecomprehen-
sive diagnostic data. Medical images often contain highly
sensitive patient information, which requires both privacy
protection and content integrity during distribution, storage,
and sharing to facilitate subsequent diagnosis and treatment.
To address the privacy and data integrity risks of medical
images in multi-party collaboration scenarios, this paper pro-
poses a multi-party reversible data hiding scheme based on
texture-guided hierarchical quantization coding. The scheme
integrates hierarchical image sharing with a dual embedding
mechanism, achieving high-capacity, secure management of
medicalimagesformultipleparties.Additionally,thescheme
featuresreversibilityandseparability,enablingdifferentroles
to access data according to speciﬁc requirements. The main
contributions of this paper are as follows:
1. A multi-party reversible data hiding framework for
healthcare systems is proposed to facilitate secure storage
and access to images. The framework assigns different access
levels to authorized parties, enabling them to extract secret
data and related information from speciﬁc regions of the
image. This method eliminates additional storage require-
ments while ensuring secure access to secret data and images.
By meeting the unique data needs of each party and protect-
ing sensitive information, the scheme effectively safeguards
patient privacy and data integrity.
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 3 of 17
29
2. A texture-guided hierarchical quantization coding
methodisproposed,whichadaptivelydeterminesblocktypes
based on the texture features of pixel blocks and applies
hierarchical quantization to difference information to reduce
storage space. By dynamically adjusting coding strategies
according to image content, this method optimizes embed-
ding efﬁciency.
3. A dual embedding mechanism is designed, with the
level 1 embedding performed by the image owner, specif-
ically embedding medical image metadata. The level 2
embedding is carried out by data embedders, where patients
and hospitals embed their respective information into cor-
responding parts of the image. This embedding method
signiﬁcantly increases embedding capacity while ensuring
information security. Moreover, it allows the system to
ﬂexibly meet diverse data access requirements, thereby safe-
guarding data security and privacy.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows:
Section2 introduces the relevant technologies of Secret Shar-
ing (SS) and Reversible Data Hiding (RDH). Section3 details
the proposed multi-party reversible data hiding scheme based
on texture-guided hierarchical quantization coding. Section4
discusses the experimental results. Section5 concludes the
paper.
2 Related work
2.1 Secret sharing
Secret sharing was proposed by researchers (Thien and Lin
2002) to address common single point of failure issues and
access control problems in key-based systems, preventing
authorized personnel from disclosing secret information.
This section will detail the basic concept of secret sharing to
help readers understand the methodology used in this paper.
A secret sharing scheme involves a two-phase access
structure for a secret S, with a set of n authorized parties
and a set of t participants. The secret S is divided into n
sub-shares, which are distributed to n authorized parties for
safekeeping. Any set of t participants can access the secret S.
The secret sub-shares held by each authorized party do not
contain any information about the original secret S. Even if
the sub-shares of n −t authorized parties are compromised,
the remaining t sub-shares can still be used to reconstruct the
secret, ensuring the recovery of S is not affected. Secret shar-
ing schemes utilize a two-phase access structure, effectively
solving these issues and signiﬁcantly enhancing the security
of data privacy protection.
The polynomial-based (t, n) secret sharing algorithm pro-
posed by Shamir is fundamental in the ﬁeld of secret sharing.
The basic idea is to construct a set of polynomial equations
over a ﬁnite ﬁeld F, using the secret S as the polynomial
coefﬁcients to generate multiple encrypted shares. Secret
receivers can recover the secret S by reconstructing the poly-
nomial using some of the shares. This (t, n) secret sharing
algorithm has three main advantages:
1. At least t shared shares are needed to recover the secret
S;
2. No single share can reveal information about the secret
S;
3. It is fault-tolerant, allowing up to n −t shares to be lost
or corrupted.
Thien and Lin extended Shamir’s secret sharing scheme
(Thien and Lin 2002) to the image domain by proposing a
(t, n) threshold secret image sharing algorithm. In this algo-
rithm, the pixel values of an image are used as polynomial
coefﬁcients to generate shadow images, and at least t shadow
images can be used to recover the original secret image using
Lagrange interpolation polynomials.
In this scheme, since some pixel values are truncated to
250 before sharing, the recovered image is not identical to
the original image. Therefore, this algorithm is not suitable
for applications that require high accuracy in the recovered
images and has certain limitations. To address this, Thien
and Lin (2002) proposed a complementary scheme in which
all pixel values greater than or equal to 250 are shared by
splitting them into two values, resulting in an increase in the
size of the generated shadow images.
To solve the above problems, Yang et al. (2007) proposed
using the Galois ﬁeld GF(28) instead of GF(251), recon-
structing the original polynomials as follows:
f j(x) = p j,1 + p j,2x + ... + p j,txt−1 mod g(x)
(1)
L j(x) =
t
t=1
( f j(xi) ×

0<k<t,k̸=i
x −xk
xi −xk
mod g(x))
(2)
Where in (1) and (2), g(x) = x8 + x4 + x3 + x2 + 1;
this approach enables lossless image reconstruction without
additional pixels.
2.2 RDH
2.2.1 RDHEI
Scientists have proposed innovative methods for reversible
data hiding in encrypted images (RDHEI), utilizing various
techniques to enhance embedding capacity, optimize image
quality, and improve data security.
Yin et al. (2022) proposed a RDHEI method based on pixel
prediction and bit-plane compression. This method lever-
ages pixel prediction to reduce data redundancy by predicting
pixel values and calculating the error between the predicted
and actual values. Regions with smaller errors are identiﬁed
123
29
Page 4 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
as embedding targets, optimizing the selection of embedding
locations. Additionally, the method analyzes the distribution
characteristics of bit planes in the image and compresses
highly redundant bit planes to release more embedding space,
thereby increasing embedding capacity without compromis-
ing image quality. Encryption ensures data privacy, while
the separability of embedded information from the image
enhances security and ﬂexibility.
Yao et al. (2024) introduced a RDHEI technique com-
bining global compression of zero-valued high bit planes
with block rearrangement. By globally compressing zero bits
in high bit planes, the method releases substantial embed-
ding space. Simultaneously, block rearrangement optimizes
the distribution of embedded data, achieving higher embed-
ding efﬁciency and stronger data integrity. Furthermore, this
method ﬂexibly adjusts embedding strategies to signiﬁcantly
improve the utilization of image embedding space while
ensuring the preservation of the original data during image
recovery.
Yu et al. (2022) proposed a RDHEI method based on hier-
archical embedding. This approach divides the embedding
process into multiple levels, prioritizing regions with smaller
prediction errors to minimize the impact on image visual
quality. Additionally, the method introduces a hierarchical
management mechanism, progressively embedding data and
ﬂexibly embedding different types of information in various
regions, improving data management efﬁciency. The hierar-
chical embedding strategy ensures not only the reversibility
of embedded data but also the independence of embedded
information from the original content, providing reliable sup-
port for multi-role data management.
Yin et al. (2020) proposed a RDHEI method combining
multi-MSB (most signiﬁcant bits) prediction with Huffman
coding. This technique predicts multiple MSBs for each
pixel and analyzes the differences between the predicted and
actual values to reduce redundancy. Huffman coding is then
used to efﬁciently compress these differences, further opti-
mizing embedding capacity. This combination of multi-bit
prediction and compression improves embedding efﬁciency
while ensuring precise recovery of data and reducing stor-
age overhead, making it suitable for applications requiring
high-precision data recovery.
Yu and Zhang (2023) proposed a method for reversible
data hiding in encrypted images that combines secret sharing
and hybrid coding. The approach uses bit-plane compression
and difference expansion to optimize embedding efﬁciency
and distributes embedded data across multiple shares for
enhanced security. Secret sharing ensures that data recov-
ery requires a minimum number of shares, protecting the
integrity and conﬁdentiality of the embedded information.
Despite the signiﬁcant technological advances of these
methods, they also share some common limitations. The
embedding capacity of these methods depends on the distri-
bution of image content. For images with complex textures
or high-frequency content, the lack of redundancy may result
in reduced embedding capacity.
2.2.2 SS-based RDH
Scientists have proposed various reversible data hiding
methods in encrypted images by integrating secret shar-
ing techniques, focusing on improving embedding capacity,
security, and data integrity.
Wu et al. (2018) proposed a reversible data hiding method
in encrypted images using secret sharing. By dividing the
image into multiple shares, the data can be embedded
and later recovered using a minimum number of shares.
This method ensures data security, effectively protecting the
integrity and conﬁdentiality of the embedded data, even if
some shares are lost or compromised.
Qin et al. (2021) improved the secret-sharing-based
reversible data hiding method by employing mathemati-
cal mechanisms in ﬁnite ﬁelds GF(q) and GF(28). Their
approach enhances the efﬁciency of share distribution and
utilization of image embedding space, increasing embed-
ding capacity and recovery precision while maintaining data
reversibility and privacy protection.
Chen et al. (2020) introduced a secret-sharing-based
reversible data hiding method in encrypted images designed
for multiple data hiders. This method allows multiple hiders
to simultaneously embed different information into the
encrypted image while preserving the reversibility of the
original image. By enabling multi-role share design, the
method enhances the ﬂexibility and security of data man-
agement.
Hua et al. (2022) proposed a cipher-feedback-based secret
sharing reversible data hiding method for encrypted images.
By optimizing data distribution through a cipher-feedback
mechanism, this method improves the robustness of embed-
ded data against attacks and enhances the precision of image
recovery. It is particularly suitable for applications requiring
high security and embedding efﬁciency, such as healthcare
and privacy protection.
Despite the signiﬁcant advancements of these secret-
sharing-based reversible data hiding methods, there are still
some limitations. First, the utilization efﬁciency of embed-
ding space requires further improvement, as some methods
fail to fully exploit low-bit information or other potential
redundancies in the image, resulting in underutilized embed-
ding capacity. Second, from the perspective of embedding
roles, these methods often assume single or limited roles for
data embedding, lacking support for collaborative multi-role
scenarios. For instance, in healthcare, patients, doctors, and
hospitals may need to embed different types of data inde-
pendently. However, current methods may face embedding
conﬂictsbetweenrolesorfailtoﬂexiblymeetthesecurityand
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 5 of 17
29
priority requirements of different roles. Additionally, the data
separation mechanism between multiple roles needs opti-
mization to prevent role privilege leakage or misuse of data.
3 Proposed method
In modern healthcare systems, the secure storage and man-
agement of medical information remain important and
complex issues. With the acceleration of digitalization, an
increasing amount of medical information is stored and
transmitted electronically, including patient identity infor-
mation, medical history, diagnostic records, medical images,
and more. The security of this data directly affects the pro-
tection of patient privacy and the improvement of healthcare
quality. However, as different types of medical informa-
tion have varying levels of importance, and different regions
within medical images also vary in signiﬁcance, it is essential
to apply targeted, hierarchical protection to these data. For
example, lesion areas (such as tumors or injuries) are espe-
cially critical in diagnosis and treatment, requiring higher
levels of security than other regions.
Patient’s private information is the most sensitive part of
medical data, usually including identity information (such
as name, ID number, address) and medical history (like past
disease records and treatment history). Unauthorized disclo-
sure of this information could pose signiﬁcant privacy risks
to patients, potentially impacting their social life and mental
well-being. Therefore, private information should be under
the strictest protection, and only accessible to the patient
or authorized individuals. Based on this principle, private
information should be held and managed by the patient them-
selves, rather than by medical institutions or third parties, to
minimize the risk of data leaks.
Medical reports constitute another critical category of
information, typically containing diagnostic results, treat-
ment plans, and information about the attending physician.
This information is crucial during the treatment process and
directly impacts the formulation and execution of treatment
strategies. Since medical reports are mainly used for commu-
nication and management within medical institutions, they
can be managed by hospitals. As the primary holders of med-
ical reports, hospitals can, under authorization, provide these
reports to doctors, patients, or other authorized parties, ensur-
ing the smooth progression of medical processes.
In practical healthcare applications, not all users require
access to all types of medical information. When diagnosing,
doctors typically only need to view speciﬁc areas of medical
images, such as lesion areas, without needing access to the
patient’s identity and other private information. This role-
based hierarchical access strategy not only allows doctors
to focus on disease-related information but also effectively
reduces the risk of exposing sensitive information, minimiz-
ing the possibility of privacy breaches. For example, during
diagnosis, doctors only need to view the image data of the
lesion area without knowing the patient’s personal back-
ground or private information.
To achieve secure and ﬂexible management of medical
data access, we propose a reversible and separable multi-
party healthcare framework to meet the distributed storage
andsecureaccessneedsofmedicalinformationamongmulti-
ple parties. The design of this framework is shown in Fig.1.
In this framework, the primary authorized parties include
the patient and the hospital. The patient holds their private
Fig. 1 Proposed reversible and separable multi-party healthcare framework
123
29
Page 6 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
information and is responsible for protecting their identity
information and medical history, while the hospital manages
the medical report. This decentralized management approach
not only protects patient privacy but also ensures effective
management of diagnostic information by the medical insti-
tution.
The workﬂow of this framework is as follows: After the
doctor completes the diagnosis, the hospital identiﬁes and
marks the lesion areas in the medical image. The origi-
nal medical image is then preprocessed and shared as n
shares according to a threshold. During the sharing process, a
series of medical image metadata, such as image generation
device information, scanning parameters, and ﬁle format,
are embedded in the redundant space of the polynomial
coefﬁcients in binary form. Subsequently, the system server
embeds the shared information of private data and medical
reports into different parts of the medical image according to
the framework. Assuming there are n cloud servers for data
embedding, each cloud server obtains kp, one share of the
image, one share of the patient’s private information, and one
share of the medical report. Based on kp, each server knows
the speciﬁc location for data embedding, and then proceeds
to embed the data sequentially. The lesion area image data
will contain the shared data of the patient’s private informa-
tion, while the non-lesion area image data will contain the
shared data of the medical report.
Based on this mechanism, the patient holds the decryption
keys for the lesion image and private information (such as ki1
and ks1), while the hospital holds the decryption keys for the
non-lesion image and medical report (such as ki2 and ks2).
Duringtheimagerecoveryprocess,thepatienthasthehighest
level of authority and can decrypt all information. Without
the patient’s authorization, the hospital can only extract the
non-lesion areas of the image and the diagnostic report, but
cannot recover the complete image or the patient’s personal
information, effectively protecting the patient’s privacy.
Additionally, due to the reversible and separable nature of
this framework, it supports the option of recovering only the
image data when only the image is needed, without extract-
ing the patient’s private information. For example, in research
analysis, researchers may only need the image data for mod-
eling purposes, without any patient identity information. In
this scenario, the system ensures the anonymity of research
data, further enhancing data security and compliance.
This framework, based on a multi-party reversible data
hiding strategy, not only strengthens the security of the
healthcare information system but also provides an efﬁ-
cient and ﬂexible solution for storing and managing medical
images. The design meets the varied data access needs of dif-
ferent roles, allowing patients, hospitals, doctors, and other
stakeholders to access data according to their level of author-
ity, thus achieving hierarchical management and protection
of medical data. While safeguarding patient privacy, it opti-
mizes the conﬁguration of access permissions and offers
robust support for the security and control of healthcare infor-
mation systems.
3.1 Texture-guided hierarchical quantization coding
This section provides a detailed introduction to the pro-
posed Texture-Guided Hierarchical Quantization Coding
(TGHQC). This method aims to maximize embedding
efﬁciency for medical images by analyzing their texture
characteristics and adaptively adjusting data encoding and
storage strategies, while ensuring the security and integrity
of the data. The core concept of TGHQC lies in leveraging
texture-based classiﬁcation of image blocks and designing
differentiated encoding approaches for different types of
pixel blocks to optimize storage and embedding space uti-
lization. TGHQC not only ensures the quality and integrity
of medical image data during storage but also supports
secure embedding and management of conﬁdential informa-
tion by integrating with the multi-party framework described
in Section3.1.
3.1.1 Texture-aware adaptive difference generation
Assume that I is an 8-bit original medical image with a size of
M × N, which is divided into several non-overlapping w × l
blocks. all blocks within image have three types of difference
generation methods: prediction error (PE), median difference
(MND), and maximum difference (MMD).
To improve the performance and effectiveness of the
algorithm, we automatically select the difference genera-
tion method by evaluating the texture characteristics of pixel
blocks. A uniﬁed formula is deﬁned based on the statisti-
cal properties of image textures, which can accurately detect
edge pixels in a given image using the Canny operator (Canny
1986). For a given block, if it contains very sparse edge pix-
els, it can be considered a smooth block, labeled as PE. On
the other hand, if it contains many edge pixels, it means that
this block has a lot of high-frequency energy and can be con-
sidered a texture block, labeled as MND. If the edge pixel
density is moderate, indicating that the area contains a con-
siderable amount of edge information, it is labeled as MMD.
Thus, blocks can be classiﬁed according to the density of
edge pixels.
As we know, the Canny operator is a very famous and
powerful edge detector that can accurately detect edge pix-
els in a given image. The images in the middle column of
Fig.2 show the edge maps detected by the Canny detector.
For a given block, if it contains very sparse edge pixels, it
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 7 of 17
29
Fig. 2 Difference generation: (a) PE generation, (b) MND generation, (c) MMD generation
can be considered a smooth block. On the other hand, if it
contains many edge pixels, it means that this block has a lot
of high-frequency energy and can be considered a texture
block. Thus, blocks can be classiﬁed based on the density of
edge pixels.
Basedontheaboveanalysis,aparameternamededgepixel
density ρedgel is deﬁned as
ρedgel =

edgel
/(w × l)
(3)
where 
edgel is the number of edge pixels in a given block
within the edge map generated by the Canny operator, l is
the length of block. The block type is determined by (4). We
set α = 0.1 and β = 0.2. Figure2 shows the examples of the
block classiﬁcation method:
Block type =
⎧
⎪⎨
⎪⎩
PE,
ρedgel ≤α
MMD, α < ρedgel ≤β
MND,
ρedgel > β.
(4)
After classifying the pixel blocks, the corresponding dif-
ferences need to be generated. The generation methods for
various differences are as follows.
PE Let ki, j represent the pixel value at position (i, j),
where ki, j ∈[0, 255], i ∈[1, w], j ∈[1,l]. Due to the high
correlation between adjacent pixels in the original image,
these pixels can be predicted using a predictor based on their
contextual pixels, such as the Median Edge Detection (MED)
123
29
Page 8 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
predictor. Let pi, j be the predicted value of ki, j. For the
pixel located in the top-left corner of the original image, its
predicted value is its actual pixel value.
p1,1 = k1,1
(5)
For other pixels that are not in the top-left corner, they are
predicted using the extended MED as follows:
pi, j =
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
b,
if i = 1 and 2 ≤j ≤l
a,
if 2 ≤i ≤w and j = 1
max(a, b), if 2 ≤i ≤w, 2 ≤j ≤l,
c ≤min(a, b)
min(a, b),
if 2 ≤i ≤w, 2 ≤j ≤l,
c ≥max(a, b)
a + b −c,
otherwise
(6)
where a = ki−1, j, b = ki, j−1, c = ki−1, j−1. Then, the
prediction error (PE) ei, j is calculated as:
ei, j = ki, j −pi, j
(7)
where ei, j ∈[−255, 255]. Figure2 (a) shows the PE gener-
ation process of the original pixel block.
MND The sixteen pixel values within each block are ﬁrst
ﬁltered, and a labeled pixel mp is selected so that it satisﬁes
the condition in (8) and exchanges position with the ﬁrst pixel
in the block. Figure2 (b) shows the MND generation process
of the original pixel block.
mp = min(max | mp −xn |), n = 1, 2, ..., w × l
(8)
where xn represents the n-th pixel value during the row-wise
traversal of the pixel block.
MMD Similartothegenerationofthelabeledpixelmp,the
w ×l pixels within each block are ﬁrst ﬁltered, and according
to (9), the maximum value among the w × l pixels is selected
as the reference pixel maxp and is swapped with the ﬁrst
pixel. Figure2 (c) shows the MMD generation process of the
original pixel block.
maxp = max(xn), n = 1, 2, ..., w × l
(9)
where xn represents the n-th pixel value during the row-wise
traversal of the pixel block.
3.1.2 Hierarchical quantization coding
We designed Hierarchical quantization coding, combined
with the texture-aware adaptive difference generation des-
cribed in the previous section, to achieve maximum data
embedding. After performing texture-aware adaptive differ-
ence generation, the generated corresponding differences are
converted into binary form, represented as the set of binary
lengths Ldi . Then, based on these lengths, the elements in
Ldi are divided into k levels, with the corresponding differ-
ence length being Lk. The maximum value of k is clearly 7.
Assuming a block has k levels; if k = 1, the block belongs to
the original difference set Odi . If k = 2, and the difference
lengths of the ﬁrst and second levels are 1 and 2 respectively,
the block still belongs to Odi . All other cases are classiﬁed
as partially shortened differences PSdi . For Odi blocks, no
further processing is performed. However, for PSdi blocks,
only the differences at the kth level are processed, assuming
that all differences {dm} in the kth level have been obtained.
The processing method for {dm} is shown in the following
equation:
d′
m =
	
dm
2n , dm mod 2 = 0
dm−1
2
, dm mod 2 ̸= 0
(10)
Where dm ∈{dm};
For dm, the operation described in (10) needs to be
repeated n times, where n = Lk −Lk−1. For PSdi blocks,
if n = 1 and the number of dm elements in the kth layer
is too large, the encoded length may exceed the original
length before encoding, which would defeat the purpose
of hierarchical quantization coding. Based on experimen-
tal veriﬁcation, we have established speciﬁc limits qn for
the number of dm elements in the kth layer corresponding
to different n values. If the number exceeds qn, hierarchical
quantization coding should not be used, and Huffman coding
should be attempted instead. The relevant speciﬁcations are
shown in Table 1.
While applying hierarchical quantization coding, we also
encode the block differences using Huffman coding and com-
paretheresultinglengthwiththatofhierarchicalquantization
coding, selecting the method with the shortest encoding
length and making the corresponding records. We generate
PE, MND, MMD of the original image for individual dif-
ference generation methods respectively, coding of the block
level differences are generated according to the huffman cod-
ing of the differences of image.
While performing hierarchical quantization coding, we
also generate a Huffman table for the difference values of
the original blocks across the entire image according to
Table 1 hierarchical
quantization coding constraints
n
qn
1
1
2
3
3
5
4
6
5
7
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 9 of 17
29
different block difference generation methods. Then, the cor-
responding blocks are encoded. We compare the lengths of
the hierarchical quantization coding encoding and the Huff-
man encoding, select the shortest method, and record it.
3.1.3 Block-level auxiliary information generation
Theauxiliaryinformationwithinalltypesofblocksisdivided
into two categories: Encoded Marking data(E M) and Dif-
ference Sign recording data(DS). The encoded marking
information is roughly divided into the following categories:
Au = Ls || MS || L p || BM || n || num || Lm || F || Rp
(11)
1. Determine the embedding position Ls: This is used to
ﬁnd the starting position for embedding secret data in the
shared M P block, occupying 4 bits. This part is not involved
in the encoding process.
2.Mode selection informationMS: After selecting the
optimal difference generation method, we need to use 2 bits
to mark the chosen method: PE is ‘00’, MND is ‘01’, and
MMD is ‘10’. After generating the differences, we perform
TGHQCencoding. If thelengthof thedifferences encodedby
Huffman is greater than that of TGHQC encoding, TGHQC
encoding is used, and the auxiliary information is marked
as ‘0’; otherwise, it is marked as ‘1’. Therefore, the total
auxiliary information for mode selection is 3 bits.
3. Mark pixel position L p: For the PE method, it is not
necessary to mark pixel position information, so if the ﬁrst
two bits of the extracted scheme choice information are ‘00’,
L p can be ignored. For the other two block types, we deter-
mine the position of the marked pixel mp or maxp within the
block, ranging from ‘0000’ to ‘1111’, occupying 4 bits.
4. Maximum difference bit count BM: The binary bit
length of the maximum difference within the block is cal-
culated and represented using 3 bits.
5. n, num, Lm, and F: These four parts represent the
information about the original differences and are introduced
together. n indicates the number of cycles required for dm,
andsincethemaximumvalueofn is6,itisﬁxedat3bits.num
represents the number of elements in {dm}, and the maximum
value of qn is 7, so it is also ﬁxed at 3 bits. Lm represents
the speciﬁc positions of dm, where each dm is represented by
4 bits, so Lm occupies num × 4 bits. F indicates whether
each dm has a minus 1 operation in each cycle; if it does, F
is 1, otherwise it is 0. The length of F is determined by n and
num, with a total of n × num bits. Therefore, the length of
this auxiliary information depends on the situation, and its
length can be calculated as n + num + n × num bits.
6. Reference pixel Rp: Although blocks are divided into
different types, the length of the reference pixel is uniformly
8 bits for all types.
For a PE block, the total length of the encoded marker
information is calculated as 18 + n + num + num × 4 + n ×
numbits. In contrast, for the other two block types, this length
is 22 + n + num + num × 4 + n × num bits. The encoded
marking information is further categorized into several dis-
tinct components, such as Ls, MS, Lp, BM, n, num, Lm,
F, and Rp.
Next is the difference symbol recording information. For
PE and MND blocks, the differences can be positive or neg-
ative, so it is necessary to record the sign of the interpolated
values for pixels other than the reference pixel, requiring 15
bits. In the MMD block, all values are smaller than the ref-
erence pixel, so no sign needs to be recorded. If the value is
greater than mp, it is recorded as ‘1’, otherwise, it is recorded
as ‘0’, taking up a total of 15 bits. The difference information
and the Huffman table are then stored into the image as aux-
iliary information for the entire image, block by block. The
same processing method is applied to the other regions. After
processing all regions, the image proceeds to the sharing step.
3.2 Level 1 embedding and polynomial-based
sharing
Theprocessedimageisﬁrstsegmentedintotworegionsusing
the method in Yang et al. (2020), based on the parts deﬁned
by the hospital, and the location coordinates of each region
are recorded as lo1,lo2. These coordinates lo1,lo2 are used
as part of the public key for recovering the original image.
The corresponding image regions are labeled as I1, I2, and
assigned ranks G1, G2, with the ranks decreasing sequen-
tially.
This subsection will explain the sharing algorithm process
in detail, as shown in Algorithm 1. After the image owner
processes the image using the encoding method proposed in
this paper, the image encryption keys ki1, ki2, along with
thresholds (t1, n1) and (t2, n2), are used as conditions on
the image regions I1, I2 to generate n1, n2 shadow images
s1, s2, ..., sn through secret image sharing. Similarly, the pri-
vate information and medical reports owned by the patient
and doctor, represented as SD1, SD2, are shared using the
data encryption keys ks1, ks2 and thresholds (t1, n1), (t2, n2),
where t1 ≥t2.
Since the encoding method in this approach is designed
for pixel blocks, when image sharing is applied to each
image block, we ﬁrst convert every 8 bits in Au into dec-
imal numbers, resulting in σ1, σ2,.... For a polynomial with
(k, n) threshold, n polynomials of degree k −1 are required,
resulting in a total of k × n polynomial coefﬁcients. How-
ever, sometimes the compressed original image information
is insufﬁcient to ﬁll k × n × 8 binary bits. Therefore, for
123
29
Page 10 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Algorithm 1 Proposed sharing algorithm
Input: Secret image I, secret data SD, thresholds
t1, t2, (t1 ≥t2), n1, n2;
Output: shares Si, i = 1, 2, ..., n;
I is partitioned into different regions I1, I2, and the location coordi-
nates of the regions are recorded as lo1, lo2. SD is partitioned into
SD1, SD2, and accordingly, the ranks G1, G2 are assigned respec-
tively, which decrease sequentially.
for SDi, i = 1, 2 do
Thesecretsharingalgorithmin(1)withthreshold(ti, ni)generates
SD(i,1), SD(i,2), ..., SD(i,ni )
end for
for Image Ii, i = 1, 2 do
Using the threshold (ti, ni) as the condition, share to generate
shadow images si, i = 1, 2, ..., n
end for
the redundant coefﬁcients, we substitute them with medical
image metadata,which is the Level 1 embedding. Once these
steps are completed, we can share the block according to (1)
and the image sharing key ki.
3.3 Level 2 embedding
After the image owner completes the Level 1 embedding and
generates the image shares for uploading to the cloud server,
the data embedder performs the Level 2 embedding. Data
embedder is responsible for embedding the patient’s private
information and medical reports into the corresponding loca-
tions within the shared images. This dual embedding method
optimizes the utilization of space within each image share.
3.4 Data extraction and image recovery
A minimum of tk authorizers with level Gk are required to
receive and manage the shared data in order to extract the
data. Then, the extracted tk data are recovered into secret
data SDk using the Lagrange interpolation algorithm.
To extract the embedded information and recover the orig-
inal secret image, the recipient ﬁrst extracts the data structure
(DS) and the Huffman coding table based on the key. Then,
each received share is divided into 4×4 blocks, and regions
O1, O2,..., Om are distinguished using the public key kp. The
recipient extracts the data and recovers the image according
to the level and type of keys they possess.
Using the image decryption key ki and the public key
kp, the original image can be directly reconstructed without
extracting the secret data. Using the data hiding key ks and
the public key kp, the secret data can be directly extracted.
Case 1: ki and kp
Extract the ﬁrst pixel value from each w × l shadow
pixel block and substitute it into the Lagrange interpolation
polynomial in (2). Simplify the polynomial and extract the
constant coefﬁcient E M′
1. Convert this coefﬁcient to binary
and read the ﬁrst four bits to determine the end position Ls of
the original image information. Next, based on the position
information and ki, sequentially extract the image informa-
tion. Since the length of the auxiliary information depends
on the block type, the block type must be determined while
extracting the information.
After reading the ﬁrst four bits of the auxiliary infor-
mation, continue by reading the next three bits SC, which
indicate the block type and whether TGHQC encoding has
been applied. If no encoding has been applied, directly look
up the table to read the Huffman code and restore the original
difference information. If it is a PE block, there is no need to
obtain the original position of the reference pixel; otherwise,
read the next four bits to obtain L p. Then, obtain the binary
bit length of the differences BM, n, and num. Based on the
values of BM and n, the length of the difference information
can be inferred as (BM −n) × 15 bits.
Next, extract num to determine the number of modiﬁed
differences, then extract the subsequent num × 4 bits to
determine the positions of these differences. The follow-
ing n × num bits correspond to the information about the
difference changes. Finally, obtain the eight-bit reference
pixel Rp and the (BM −n) × 15 bits of difference infor-
mation. Then, recover the original differences according to
Section3.4, thereby restoring the original image.
dm =d′
m ×2+ Fm(i), m = 1, 2, . . . , num, i =1, 2, . . . , n
Case 2: ks and kp
Using kp, reconstruct the Ls pixel, removing its auxiliary
information while preserving the secret information. This
secret information, which is reconstructed by ks, is then com-
bined with the previously extracted information to form the
complete secret data SD.
Case 3: ki, ks, and kp
The secret data SD can be extracted ﬁrst based on ks, or
the original image can be recovered ﬁrst based on ki. This
scheme is both reversible and separable.
3.5 Numerical example
To better understand the algorithm, we demonstrate the pro-
posed method using the sample block shown in Fig.2.
First, according to (3) and (4), we can determine that the
sample 4 × 4 block belongs to the MND category. The next
stepistoperformhierarchicalquantizationcoding.Taking(4,
3) sharing as an example, according to Table 1, we conclude
that this block meets the conditions for hierarchical quantiza-
tion coding. As shown in Fig.3, according to (8), the marked
pixel mp for this block is 157, and the difference array d
between the marked pixel and the other pixels is calculated
as [5 0 0 2 7 0 0 7 2 0 2 2 2 0 5 9]. After performing the
hierarchical quantization coding operation, the differences
become [5 0 0 2 7 0 0 7 2 0 2 2 2 0 5 4], with a maximum
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 11 of 17
29
Fig. 3 Texture-guided hierarchical quantization coding
value of (7)10 = (111)2. Therefore, the corresponding num-
ber of binary bits BM is (3)10 = (011)2. The difference sign
information is recorded as (100110011011010)2, where val-
ues greater than 157 are labeled as “1”, and those less than
or equal to 157 are labeled as “0”. Since this is a marked
block, Ms is “1”. The position of the marked pixel mp in the
block L p is “1111”, and the position Lm in the difference
block is also “1111”, with a corresponding value n equal to
1. Therefore, the change feature F is only 1 bit and is set to 1.
Additionally, by converting each decimal number in the array
d′
i, i = 1, 2, ..., 15 into a 3-bit binary form, constrained by
the limit of BM, the auxiliary information set D for this block
is generated. Ls is calculated as ⌈78
24⌉= (4)10 = (0100)2.
The speciﬁc values are shown in the ﬁgure and will be used
in the subsequent sharing phase. Since this block is classiﬁed
as an MND block, the ﬁrst two bits of MS are 01. The Huff-
man encoding length for this block is 81 bits, so hierarchical
quantization coding is still selected, and MS is 010.
As shown in Fig.4, the process of generating shared data
for the sample block is demonstrated. Assuming the sharing
threshold is (3, 4), after generating the auxiliary informa-
tion and difference information in Fig.3, we ﬁrst arrange the
auxiliary information, followed by the difference informa-
tion. These are divided into several 8-bit binary sequences
and converted into decimal numbers less than or equal to
255. These numbers are used as polynomial coefﬁcients,
which are then divided into four parts for sharing based on
ki. Before embedding, we pre-calculate the space occupied
by all auxiliary information after sharing, which is Ls = 4.
Therefore, this information occupies only four pixels in each
share, with each pixel sharing 24 bits of information, mean-
ing that four pixels require 96 bits. However, in Section3.1.3,
we calculated the total length of Au and d′
i to be 78 bits, leav-
ing 18 bits of blank space. To ﬁll this blank space and further
utilize redundant space, we plan to Level 1 embedding. The
remaining space cannot be fully utilized in Fig.4, because
Fig. 4 Blocks (3, 4) Sharing of MND
123
29
Page 12 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Fig. 5 Embedding of share 1
replacing the ﬁrst two bits of the redundant space would pre-
vent medical image metadata from being restored. Therefore,
only the last 16 bits can be replaced with useful information,
which contain the medical image metadata.
Figure5 illustrates the Level 2 embedding process for
Data Hider 1 in Share 1. After receiving Share 1, Hider 1
ﬁrst uses kp to determine the sharing threshold of the block,
thereby identifying the data embedding position. The secret
dataisthensequentiallyembeddedintotheblankpixelblocks
according to the sharing order.
Figure6 provides a detailed example of extracting data
from the shares and recovering the original pixel values. As
shown in this ﬁgure, the recipient receives any three shadow
blocks: Share 1, Share 2, and Share 3. By using only the
image decryption key and the public key, the ﬁrst pixel value
can be extracted from each shadow image block, determin-
Fig. 6 Data extraction and block recovery
ing that the image information is located in the fourth pixel
position. After determining that the recorded information in
the entire block is 78 bits long, the corresponding difference
and auxiliary information are extracted. For pixels encoded
using hierarchical quantization coding, the receiver sequen-
tially restores the original differences based on Section3.4,
thereby recovering the original pixel blocks. If only the data
extraction key and the public key are available, the recipient
can determine the starting position of the embedded secret
data based on the public key information, allowing for the
complete extraction of the secret information.
4 Experimental results and analysis
In this section, we present the experimental results of the
algorithms. All medical test images shown in Fig.7 are
selected from COVID-CT (Yang et al. 2020). Additionally,
we also selected seven classic standard images for compari-
son experiments, and all images are of size 512 × 512.
4.1 Security analysis
Visual Security: Fig.8 provides an example of the image shar-
ing and extraction process of Fig.7 (d) using the RDHSI
algorithm, with thresholds of (2, 4) and (3, 4), w = 2, l = 4. In
this ﬁgure, SD1 and SD2 represent private information and
medical reports, respectively. The information is embedded
into shares S1 through S4. The recipient, the patient, can use
the key to recover both the lesion and personal information;
Fig. 7 Text images (Yang et al. 2020)
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 13 of 17
29
Fig. 8 Example of recovery and extraction in medical images shown in Fig.7 (d)
however, without the patient’s authorization, the hospital can
only recover the non-lesion area and the medical report.
From this, it can be observed that all shared images appear
as noise images and do not contain any discernible infor-
mation from the original image, making the embedded data
visually imperceptible. These shared images do not reveal
any details about the original image or the secret data. For an
attacker, the content of the original image and the embedded
data remains undetectable.
Therefore, it can be concluded that the proposed scheme is
lossless.Additionally,thesizeofthegeneratedsharedimages
is equal to the size of the original image. From this, we can
conclude that the proposed scheme is both secure and reli-
able.
Image Histogram: Fig.9 shows the histogram of the orig-
inal image in Fig.8, along with the histograms of the four
shares and recover image. It is clear from the ﬁgure that there
is a signiﬁcant difference between the histogram of the orig-
inal image (a) and the histograms of the shared images (b),
(c), (d) and (e). The histogram of the original image exhibits
a more concentrated distribution, whereas the histograms
of the shared images display a more uniform distribution,
resembling noise. This indicates that during the sharing pro-
cess, the original information of the image is effectively
concealed, and the generated shared images do not con-
tain any discernible features of the original image, thereby
ensuring the security and conﬁdentiality of the image sharing
process.
PSNR and SSIM: To verify the visual security and encryp-
tion effectiveness of the proposed method during the infor-
mation hiding process, we calculated the PSNR and SSIM
values between the encrypted images (shared images) and
the original images. PSNR evaluates the pixel-level similar-
ity, while SSIM measures the structural similarity. Ideally,
encrypted images should exhibit low PSNR and SSIM values
close to 0 compared to the original images, ensuring that the
123
29
Page 14 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Fig. 9 Histogram of original image, S1-S4 and recover image in Fig.8
encrypted images are visually imperceptible and incapable
of leaking original information.
In the experiment, medical images in Fig.7 were selected
as test images, and they were shared using a (3, 4) threshold
scheme. The PSNR and SSIM of the reconstructed images
and the four shares relative to the original images were tested.
The results are shown in Table 2.
From the table, it can be observed that the PSNR values
of all encrypted images are low (around 9 10 dB), indi-
cating minimal pixel-level similarity between the encrypted
images and the original images. Additionally, the SSIM val-
ues of the encrypted images are close to 0, showing that
the encrypted images lack visual and structural similarity to
the original images. This demonstrates that the encryption
process effectively conceals the information of the original
images, ensuring the visual security of the encrypted images.
The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed
method can generate encrypted images with pseudo-random
distributions, making them visually resemble noise. As a
result, it is impossible to infer any information about the
original images from the encrypted images. This further val-
idates the security and reliability of the proposed method
during the information hiding process.
4.2 Data expansion
According to the discussion in the literature (Wu et al. 2018),
data expansion means that the shared encrypted image is
larger than the original image. The data expansion rate of the
entire scheme can be reﬂected by the ratio of the number of
pixels in the shared encrypted image to the number of pixels
in the original image.
Expansion rate = number of shared image pixels
number of original image pixels
(12)
Therefore, the expansion rate is used in the experiment
to reﬂect the data expansion of the scheme, and the data
expansion rate is expected to be as small as possible. The data
expansion of this paper’s scheme is compared with several
different schemes proposed by Wu et al. (2018), Qin et al.
(2021), Chen et al. (2019), Chen et al. (2020), and Hua et al.
(2022), as shown in Table 3. In the schemes (Wu et al. 2018;
Qin et al. 2021; Chen et al. 2019), and (Chen et al. 2020),
the shared shares generated are the same size as the original
image, so the expansion rate is 1. The size of the shared share
generated by the scheme in Hua et al. (2022) is 1/(t - 1) of
the original image, where t is the recovery threshold, so its
expansion rate is 1/(t - 1), showing better data expansion
performance. In the scheme of this paper, the shared shares
generated by the proposed sharing and embedding algorithm
are the same size as the original image, the shared shares in
multi-party recovery are the same size as the divided region,
and the maximum size of the shared share is the size of the
original image. Therefore, the maximum expansion rate of
the proposed scheme in this paper is 1, demonstrating good
data expansion performance.
Table 2 PSNR and SSIM of original, shares, and recovered images of Fig.7
Images
S1
S2
S3
S4
Recovered Image
PSNR
SSIM
PSNR
SSIM
PSNR
SSIM
PSNR
SSIM
Fig.7(a)
9.87
0.011
10.12
0.014
9.95
0.013
10.03
0.010
PSNR=∞, SSIM=1.000
Fig.7(b)
9.65
0.010
9.89
0.012
10.02
0.011
9.84
0.009
PSNR=∞, SSIM=1.000
Fig.7(c)
9.78
0.012
10.05
0.013
9.92
0.010
9.99
0.008
PSNR=∞, SSIM=1.000
Fig.7(d)
9.56
0.009
9.81
0.011
9.74
0.010
10.08
0.009
PSNR=∞, SSIM=1.000
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 15 of 17
29
Table 3 Data expansion of different programmes
Shames
Expansion rate
Wu et al. (2018)
1
Qin et al. (2021)
1
Chen et al. (2019)
1
Chen et al. (2020)
1
Hua et al. (2022)
1/(t −1)
Proposed method
≤1
4.3 Payload capacity
In the experiments, we tested the embedding rate (ER) of
the encoding scheme proposed in this paper under differ-
ent sharing thresholds. All schemes measured the effective
ER, which is the ER of effective data after removing the
embedded auxiliary information, as shown in (12). We ran-
domly selected several medical images, as shown in Fig.7,
and tested the ER of these images under several different
sharing thresholds, with the results shown in Table 4. We set
different w and l with different t. As the value of t in the shar-
ing threshold increases, more auxiliary information data can
be accommodated in the polynomial, providing more space
for embedding effective secret data in the image. Therefore,
for the same image, the higher the t value in the sharing
threshold, the higher the ER.
To further enhance the persuasiveness of the experiments,
we selected several commonly used classic images and
compared them with various advanced RDHEI and RDHSI
methods (Yin et al. 2022; Yao et al. 2024; Yu et al. 2022; Yin
et al. 2020; Yu and Zhang 2023), we set w = 4, l = 4; As
shown in Fig.10, in the vast majority of classic images, our
embedding rate is signiﬁcantly higher than almost all other
schemes, with the only exception being the airplane image,
where it is slightly lower than (Yu and Zhang 2023). This
demonstrates that the proposed method achieves a higher
embedding capacity while maintaining image quality.
We also compared the TGHQC proposed in this paper
with Yin et al. (2022); Yao et al. (2024); Yu et al. (2022);
Yin et al. (2020); Yu and Zhang (2023) on two classic
Table 4 Embedding rate of different test images of Fig.7 in different
shared thresholds
image
(2, 4) Shared
(3, 4) Shared
(4, 4) Shared
w=2, l=4
w=2, l=4
w=2, l=4
ER(bpp)
ER(bpp)
ER(bpp)
(a)
3.65
4.59
5.56
(b)
3.91
4.85
5.87
(c)
4.56
5.40
6.37
(d)
3.72
4.64
5.59
Average
3.96
4.87
5.85
Fig. 10 Comparison of ER with several advanced encoding methods
in classic images
datasets, BOSScase and BOWS-2. The comparison results
are shown in Fig.11. The proposed TGHQC achieved signif-
icantly higher average embedding efﬁciency on BOSSBase
and BOWS-2 than other schemes. It can be seen that the pro-
posed TGHQC achieves a higher embedding rate compared
to the other methods, demonstrating its superiority. Addi-
tionally, we also evaluated the embedding rate of TGHQC in
the medical image dataset (Yang et al. 2020). Experimental
results show that the proposed encoding method achieves an
average embedding rate of 4.5433 bpp in the medical image
dataset, indicating a relatively high embedding capacity.
4.4 Performance comparison
This subsection summarizes the characteristics of several dif-
ferent related schemes and the results are shown in Table 5.
The schemes in the literature (Wu et al. 2018; Qin et al. 2021;
Chen et al. 2020; Yu and Zhang 2023) and (Hua et al. 2022)
all address the case where the storage party needs to classify
and label the image after the secret image is shared, so the
data embedding is done in the cloud service provider or data
hiding party. The algorithm proposed in this paper, on the
other hand, addresses the situation where the system needs
Fig. 11 Comparison of ER with several advanced encoding methods
in BOSScase and BOWS-2
123
29
Page 16 of 17
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Table 5 Comparison of the performance of different shames
Shame
Data hider
Secret data shared
Complexity of the algorithm
Level of access
Separable
Wu et al. (2018)
Single data hider
NO
(t+2)(t−1)M N
2
NO
NO
Qin et al. (2021)
Single data hider
NO
(t+2)(t−1)M N
2
NO
NO
Chen et al. (2020)
Multiple data hider
NO
(t+2)(t−1)M N
2
NO
YES
Hua et al. (2022)
Multiple data hider
NO
(t+2)M N
2
NO
NO
Yu and Zhang (2023)
Multiple data hider
NO
(t+2)(t−1)M N
2
NO
NO
Proposed method
Multiple data hider
YES
< (t+2)(t−1)M N
2
YES
YES
to encrypt both the secret image and the additional data, so
it chooses to carry out the sharing and data embedding oper-
ations in the content owner, which saves the transmission
bandwidth and avoids the additional database access. The
properties that each scheme relies on when embedding data
are listed in the table.
The proposed scheme in this paper utilizes texture infor-
mation of pixel blocks to generate differences, which max-
imizes space savings for data embedding. Additionally, the
algorithms in Wu et al. (2018); Qin et al. (2021); Chen et al.
(2020) and Yu and Zhang (2023) require sequential process-
ing of each pixel value in an image of size M × N. Each
sharingoperationrequires(t−1)M N additionoperationsand
(t(t−1)M N)
2
multiplication operations under a (t, n) threshold,
so their algorithmic complexity is deﬁned as ((t+2)(t−1)M N)
2
.
In contrast, the scheme in Hua et al. (2022) computes in
groups of (t −1) pixels during sharing, leading to an algo-
rithmic complexity of ((t+2)M N)
2
. In the proposed scheme
of this paper, each 4 × 4 marked pixel block only needs
to compute two polynomials, each 2 × 2 sub-marked pixel
block only needs to compute one polynomial, and each 2
× 2 non-sub-marked pixel block requires four polynomi-
als to be computed. Thus, the computational complexity
of this scheme depends on the texture complexity of the
secret image, and not all regions use the same polynomial
for sharing, resulting in lower complexity compared to other
schemes.
Furthermore, this scheme effectively combines texture
information to optimize the data embedding process, which
not only saves space but also enhances embedding efﬁciency
and data conﬁdentiality. This combination allows for better
implementation of data hiding and information security in
practical applications, especially in scenarios involving high-
resolution images or requiring the storage of large amounts
of additional data.
Therefore, the proposed scheme based on generating dif-
ferences using texture information not only has signiﬁcant
advantages in data embedding space but also demonstrates
superiority in computational complexity, making it suitable
for use in visual information systems that require high secu-
rity and efﬁcient computation.
5 Conclusion
This paper proposes a multi-party reversible data hiding
algorithm based on texture-guided hierarchical quantization
coding for sharing medical images. Firstly, a framework for
secure multi-party storage and access of medical system
information is proposed; the main data authorizers are the
patients and hospitals. By implementing role-based access to
information, the secure storage and access of medical images
within the system are achieved. We also propose a new cod-
ing method called TGHQC, which uses the texture features
of pixel blocks to adaptively generate difference information
and subsequently perform hierarchical encoding. Finally,
A dual embedding mechanism is designed,This embedding
method signiﬁcantly increases embedding capacity while
ensuring information security.
Data Availability All data included in this study are available upon
request by contact with the corresponding author.
Declarations
Conﬂict of interest The authors have no relevant ﬁnancial or non-
ﬁnancial interests to disclose. The authors have no Conﬂict of interest to
declare that are relevant to the content of this article. All authors certify
that they have no afﬁliations with or involvement in any organization or
entity with any ﬁnancial interest or non-ﬁnancial interest in the subject
matter or materials discussed in this manuscript. The authors have no
ﬁnancial or proprietary interests in any material discussed in this article.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License,
which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and repro-
duction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit
to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative
Commons licence, and indicate if you modiﬁed the licensed mate-
rial. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted
material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other
third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative
Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the
material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons
licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regula-
tion or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission
directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
123
Journal of King Saud University Computer and Information Sciences (2025) 37 :29
Page 17 of 17
29
References
Canny J (1986) A computational approach to edge detection. IEEE
Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell 8:679–698. https://doi.org/10.
1109/TPAMI.1986.4767851
Chen Y, Hung T, Hsieh S et al (2019) A new reversible data
hiding in encrypted image based on multi-secret sharing and
lightweight cryptographic algorithms. IEEE Trans Inf Forensics
Secur 14:3332–3343
Chen B, Lu W, Huang J et al (2020) Secret sharing based reversible data
hiding in encrypted images with multiple data-hiders. IEEE Trans
Dependable Secure Comput 19:978–991. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TDSC.2020.2982197
Chen B, Lu W, Huang J et al (2022) Secret sharing based reversible
data hiding in encrypted images with multiple data-hiders. IEEE
Trans Dependable Secure Comput 19:978–991
Chen B, Yang R, Fang W, Zhan X, Cai J (2024) On the design of multi-
party reversible data hiding over ciphered overexposed images.
Symmetry 16:45. https://doi.org/10.3390/sym16010045
Hua Z, Wang Y, Yi S et al (2022) Reversible data hiding in encrypted
images using cipher-feedback secret sharing. IEEE Trans Circ Syst
Vid Technol 32:4968–4982
Huang F, Huang J, Shi YQ (2016) New framework for reversible
data hiding in encrypted domain. IEEE Trans Inf Forensics Secur
11:2777–2789
Huang J, Cui Q, Zhou Z, Yu K, Yang CN, Choo KKR (2024) Encrypted
domain secret medical-image sharing with secure outsourcing
computation in iot environment. IEEE Internet Things J 11:2382–
2393
Li X, Li B, Yang B, Zeng T (2013) General framework to histogram-
shifting-based reversible data hiding. IEEE Trans Image Process
22:2181–2191
Luo L, Chen Z, Chen M, Zeng X, Xiong Z (2010) Reversible
image watermarking using interpolation technique. IEEE Trans
Inf Forensics Secur 5:187–193
Ma K, Zhang W, Zhao X, Yu N, Li F (2013) Reversible data hiding
in encrypted images by reserving room before encryption. IEEE
Trans Inf Forensics Secur 8:553–562
Ni Z, Shi Y, Ansari N, Su W (2006) Reversible data hiding. IEEE Trans
Circ Syst Vid Technol 16:354–362
Qin C, Jiang C, Mo Q et al (2021) Reversible data hiding in encrypted
image via secret sharing based on GF(q) and GF(28). J Real-
Time Image Process 18:1831–1841
Shamir A (1979) How to share a secret. Commun ACM 22:612–613
Thien C, Lin J (2002) Secret image sharing. Comput Graph 26:765–770
Thodi D, Rodríguez J (2007) Expansion embedding techniques for
reversible watermarking. IEEE Trans Image Process 16:721–730
Tian J (2003) Reversible data embedding using a difference expansion.
IEEE Trans Circ Syst Vid Technol 13:890–896
WengK,QinJ,SongT,Shi H(2023)Reversible data hidinginencrypted
imagebasedondual-domainjointcodingandsecretsharing.JAppl
Sci 41:197–217
Wu X, Weng J, Yan W (2018) Adopting secret sharing for reversible
data hiding in encrypted images. Signal Process 143:269–281
Xiong L, Han X, Yang C, Xia Z (2023) RDH-DES: Reversible data
hiding over distributed encrypted-image servers based on secret
sharing. ACM Trans Multimed Comput Commun Appl 19:5
Yang C, Chen T, Yu K et al (2007) Improvements of image sharing with
steganography and authentication. J Syst Softw 80:1070–1076
Yang X, He X, Zhao J, Zhang Y, Zhang S, Xie P (2020) Covidct-dataset:
A ct scan dataset about covid-19. arXiv https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2003.13865
Yao Y, Wang K, Chang Q, Weng S (2024) Reversible data hiding
in encrypted images using global compression of zero-valued
high bitplanes and block rearrangement. IEEE Trans Multimed
26:3701–3714. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMM.2023.3314975
Yin Z, Xiang Y, Zhang X (2020) Reversible data hiding in encrypted
images based on multi-msb prediction and huffman coding. IEEE
Trans Multimed 22:874–884. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMM.2019.
2936314
Yin Z, Peng Y, Xiang Y (2022) Reversible data hiding in encrypted
images based on pixel prediction and bit-plane compression. IEEE
Trans Dependable Secure Comput 19:992–1002
Yin Z, Peng Y, Xiang Y (2022) Reversible data hiding in encrypted
images based on pixel prediction and bit-plane compression. IEEE
Trans Dependable Secure Comput 19:992–1002. https://doi.org/
10.1109/TDSC.2020.3021875
Yu CQ, Zhang XQ et al (2023) Reversible data hiding in encrypted
images with secret sharing and hybrid coding. IEEE Trans Circ
Syst Vid Technol 33:6443–6458. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCSVT.
2023.3271268
Yu C, Zhang X, Li G, Zhan S, Tang Z (2022) Reversible data hiding
with adaptive difference recovery for encrypted images. Inf Sci
584:89–110. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2021.12.020
Yu C, Zhang X, Zhang X, Li G, Tang Z (2022) Reversible data
hiding with hierarchical embedding for encrypted images. IEEE
Trans Circ Syst Vid Technol 32:451–466. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TCSVT.2021.3062947
Zhang X (2011) Reversible data hiding in encrypted image. IEEE Signal
Process Lett 18:255–258
Zhang X (2012) Separable reversible data hiding in encrypted image.
IEEE Trans Inf Forensics Secur 7:826–832
Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to juris-
dictional claims in published maps and institutional afﬁliations.
123
